Readme.md, before:

Project to control IKEA hydroponics Krydda/ Växer

#### Planned items:

Control growth with microcontroller/ embedded system and sensors (light, humidity, temperature, CO2, water level etc.)  utilizing automated lighting and water refill with the new IKEA Krydda/ Växer system.

##### Sensors

I added the first sensor to the project. It is a light sensor (BH1750FVI) which will monitor the amount of light the plants accumulate over the day. To save energy I will only switch on the lights as long as necessary if ambient light (sunlight) is available.
You can find an [example sketch and the library here](https://github.com/markbeee/BH1750FVI). The light sensor on a breakout board is available on Ebay, Aliexpress etc.

BH1750FVI connected to a ESP12 breadboard adapter board
(see my project [ESP8266 breadboard adapter board](https://github.com/markbeee/ESP8266_Breakout_Board))

![BH1750FVI breadboard setup with ESP8266](/images/BH1750FVI.jpg)

#### Pictures from the seed and growth

| Parsley | Pak Choi | Chard | White cabbage | Rocket | Large-leaved chicory | Curled-leaved endive | Parsley | Watercress | Basil |
|---------|----------|-------|---------------|--------|---------------|----------------|---------|------------|-------|

Day 0 (initial seed)

![Initial seed day 0](/images/Day0_git_800w.jpg)

Day 3

![Seed day 3](/images/Day3_git_slant.jpg)

Day 6
(Parsley looks like it's dead seed)

![Seed day 6](/images/Day6_git_slant.jpg)

Day 0 (in a new home)
Seedlings moved to cultivation unit

![Cultivation day 0](/images/Day0_git_grow.jpg)

Commit message:

Added example sketch for ESP82266 with web dashboard on adafruit.io

Readme.md, after:

##Project to control IKEA hydroponics Krydda/ Växer

#### Planned items

Control growth with microcontroller/ embedded system and sensors (light, humidity, temperature, CO2, water level etc.)  utilizing automated lighting and water refill with the new IKEA Krydda/ Växer system.

##### Sensors

I added the first sensor to the project. It is a light sensor (BH1750FVI) which will monitor the amount of light the plants accumulate over the day. To save energy in the future I will only switch on the lights as long as necessary if ambient light (sunlight) is available.
You can find an [example sketch and the library here](https://github.com/markbeee/BH1750FVI). The light sensor on a breakout board is available on Ebay, Aliexpress etc.

BH1750FVI connected to an ESP8266 (ESP-12) breadboard adapter board
(see my project [ESP8266 breadboard adapter board](https://github.com/markbeee/ESP8266_Breakout_Board))

![BH1750FVI breadboard setup with ESP8266](/images/BH1750FVI.jpg)

#### Firmware sketch for ESP8266 with web dashboard on adafruit.io

To monitor your cultivation unit from local/ everywhere I wrote a [sketch](/firmware/Krydda_growth_control_Adafruit_io.ino) to both send the actual values via the serial port and to adafruit.io which is a nice web service for displaying data in the internet (of things).

Demo-Dashboard of my [Krydda system](https://io.adafruit.com/markb2) 

![Adafruit.io dashboard](/images/Adafruit_io_dashboard.jpg)

You can get more information on how to set up your own dashboard on adafruit.io [here](https://io.adafruit.com/)
 
#### Pictures from the seed and growth

| Parsley | Pak Choi | Chard | White cabbage | Rocket | Large-leaved chicory | Curled-leaved endive | Parsley | Watercress | Basil |
|---------|----------|-------|---------------|--------|---------------|----------------|---------|------------|-------|

Day 0 (initial seed)

![Initial seed day 0](/images/Day0_git_800w.jpg)

Day 3

![Seed day 3](/images/Day3_git_slant.jpg)

Day 6
~~(Parsley looks like it's dead seed)~~ Parsley needs much more time to germinate - RTFM! (about 14 days)

![Seed day 6](/images/Day6_git_slant.jpg)

Day 0 (in a new home)
Seedlings moved to cultivation unit

![Cultivation day 0](/images/Day0_git_grow.jpg)
